# Facilities-Management-at-a-Crossroad-Part-1-of-3-
With the collapse of Carillion in 2018 and Interserve going into administration, what does the future hold for Facilities Management (FM) outsourcing in the UK? Before we can answer that question we should ask ourselves, why has this happened? For a number of years, we have been hearing that FM and outsourcing is a growth industry with record numbers of organisations outsourcing their non-core services, such as cleaning, security, catering, reception, maintenance services. Indeed, trends suggest that outsourcing has been increasing year on year for the last 25 years. Facilities Management Having been a practitioner and a consultant, in Facilities Management for the past 30 years, I have certainly witnessed the growth and all that is good and bad in FM. I have worked with many organizations that have had a need to purchase outsourced Facilities Management services, throughout the public and private based organizations and across most sectors. Representing purchasing (demand) organizations, within an FM procurement capacity has given me not only a good understanding of how a demand organizations mind works, including their objectives and critical success factors but also how the supply organisation (FM suppliers and contractors) respond within a procurement or tender opportunity accordingly. Indeed, having led and managed outsourcing tenders with an accumulative value of over $1 Billion with organisations across most industry sectors, I believe I have gained a reasonably clear understanding of where the market currently stands and what the problems are.
